16  Send a ram to the ruler of the land,From Seʹla through the wildernessTo the mountain of the daughter of Zion. 
 2  Like a bird chased away from its nest,+So the daughters of Moʹab will be at the fords of Arʹnon.+ 
 3  “Offer counsel, carry out the decision. Make your shadow at high noon like the night. Conceal the dispersed and do not betray those fleeing. 
 4  May my dispersed ones reside in you, O Moʹab. Become a place of concealment to them because of the destroyer.+ The oppressor will reach his end,The destruction will come to an end,And those trampling others down will perish from the earth. 
 5  Then a throne will be firmly established in loyal love. The one who sits on it in the tent of David will be faithful;+He will judge fairly and will swiftly execute righteousness.”+ 
 6  We have heard about the pride of Moʹab—he is very proud+—His haughtiness and his pride and his fury;+But his empty talk will come to nothing. 
 7  So Moʹab will wail for Moʹab;They will all wail.+ Those who are stricken will moan for the raisin cakes of Kir-harʹe·seth.+ 
 8  For the terraces of Heshʹbon+ have withered,The vine of Sibʹmah,+The rulers of the nations have trampled its bright-red branches;*They had reached as far as Jaʹzer;+They had extended into the wilderness. Its shoots had spread out and gone as far as the sea. 
 9  That is why I will weep over the vine of Sibʹmah as I weep for Jaʹzer. With my tears I will drench you, O Heshʹbon and E·le·aʹleh,+Because the shouting over your summer fruit and your harvest has ended.* 
10  Rejoicing and joyfulness have been taken away from the orchard,And there are no songs of joy or shouting in the vineyards.+ The treader no longer treads out wine in the presses,For I have caused the shouting to cease.+ 
11  That is why deep within me I am boisterous over Moʹab,+Like the strumming of a harp,And my innermost being over Kir-harʹe·seth.+ 
12  Even when Moʹab wears himself out on the high place and goes to pray in his sanctuary, he will accomplish nothing.+ 
13  This is the word that Jehovah previously spoke concerning Moʹab.
14  And now Jehovah says: “Within three years, like the years of a hired worker,* the glory of Moʹab will be disgraced with much tumult of every sort, and those who remain will be very few and insignificant.”+
