17  A pronouncement against Damascus:+ “Look! Damascus will cease to be a city,And it will become a heap of ruins.+ 
 2  The cities of A·roʹer+ will be abandoned;They will become places for flocks to lie downWith no one to make them afraid. 
 3  Fortified cities will disappear from Eʹphra·im,+And the kingdom from Damascus;+And those remaining of SyriaWill be like the glory of the Israelites,”* declares Jehovah of armies. 
 4  “In that day the glory of Jacob will diminish,And his healthy body* will grow thin. 
 5  It will be as when the harvester is gathering the standing grainAnd his arm harvests the ears of grain,Like when one gleans grain in the Valley* of Rephʹa·im.+ 
 6  Only gleanings will be left,As when an olive tree is beaten: Only two or three ripe olives remain on the highest branch,Only four or five on its fruit-bearing branches,”+ declares Jehovah the God of Israel. 
7  In that day man will look up to his Maker, and his eyes will gaze at the Holy One of Israel.
8  He will not look to the altars,+ the work of his hands;+ and he will not gaze at what his fingers have made, either the sacred poles* or the incense stands. 
 9  In that day his fortress cities will become like an abandoned site in the woodland,+Like a branch that was abandoned before the Israelites;It will become a wasteland. 
10  For you have forgotten the God+ of your salvation;You have failed to remember the Rock+ of your fortress. That is why you plant beautiful* plantationsAnd set it with the shoot of a stranger.* 
11  In the day you carefully fence in your plantation,In the morning you make your seed sprout,But the harvest will vanish in the day of disease and incurable pain.+ 
12  Listen! There is a commotion of many peoples,Who are as boisterous as the seas! There is an uproar of nations,Whose sound is like the roar of mighty waters! 
13  The nations will make a sound like the roar of many waters. He will rebuke them, and they will flee far away,Chased like the chaff of the mountains before a wind,Like a whirling thistle* before a storm wind. 
14  In the evening there is terror. Before morning they are no more. This is the share of those pillaging usAnd the lot of those plundering us.
