56  This is what Jehovah says: “Uphold justice,+ and do what is righteous,For my salvation will soon comeAnd my righteousness will be revealed.+ 
 2  Happy is the man who does thisAnd the son of man who holds fast to it,Who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it+And who holds his hand back from any kind of evil. 
 3  The foreigner who joins himself to Jehovah+ should not say,‘Jehovah will surely separate me from his people.’ And the eunuch should not say, ‘Look! I am a dried-up tree.’” 
4  For this is what Jehovah says to the eunuchs who keep my sabbaths and who choose what I delight in and who hold fast to my covenant: 
 5  “I will give to them in my house and within my walls a monument and a name,Something better than sons and daughters. An everlasting name I will give them,One that will not perish. 
 6  As for the foreigners who join themselves to Jehovah to minister to him,To love the name of Jehovah+And to be his servants,All those who keep the Sabbath and do not profane itAnd who hold fast to my covenant,
 7  I will also bring them to my holy mountain+And make them rejoice inside my house of prayer. Their whole burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar. For my house will be called a house of prayer for all the peoples.”+ 
8  The Sovereign Lord Jehovah, who is gathering the dispersed ones of Israel,+ declares: “I will gather to him others besides those already gathered.”+ 
 9  All you wild animals of the field, come to eat,All you wild animals in the forest.+ 
10  His watchmen are blind,+ none of them have taken note.+ All of them are speechless dogs, unable to bark.+ They are panting and lying down; they love to slumber. 
11  They are dogs with a voracious appetite;*They are never satisfied. They are shepherds who have no understanding.+ They have all gone their own way;Every last one of them seeks his own dishonest gain and says: 
12  “Come, let me take some wine,And let us drink our fill of alcohol.+ And tomorrow will be like today, only far better!”
