3  It was after this that Job began to speak and to curse the day of his birth.*+
2  Job said: 
 3  “Let the day perish on which I was born,+Also the night when someone said: ‘A man has been conceived!’ 
 4  Let that day be darkness. Let God above show no concern for it;Let no light shine upon it. 
 5  Let the deepest darkness* reclaim it. Let a rain cloud settle over it. Let whatever darkens the day terrify it. 
 6  That night—let the gloom seize it;+Let it not rejoice among the days of a year,And let it not enter among the number of the months. 
 7  Indeed! Let that night become barren;Let no joyful cry be heard in it. 
 8  Let those who curse the day put a curse on it,Those who are able to awaken Le·viʹa·than.*+ 
 9  Let the stars of its twilight grow dark;Let it wait in vain for daylight,And let it not see the rays of dawn. 
10  For it did not close the doors of my mother’s womb;+Nor did it hide trouble from my eyes. 
11  Why did I not die at birth? Why did I not perish when I came from the womb?+ 
12  Why were there knees to receive meAnd breasts to nurse me? 
13  For now I would be lying down undisturbed;+I would be sleeping and at rest+
14  With kings of the earth and their advisers,Who built for themselves places that are now in ruins,*
15  Or with princes who possessed gold,Whose houses were filled with silver. 
16  Or why was I not like a hidden miscarriage,Like children who have never seen the light? 
17  There even the wicked have ceased from agitation;There the weary are at rest.+ 
18  There the prisoners are at ease together;They do not hear the voice of the one forcing them to work. 
19  Small and great are the same there,+And the slave is set free from his master. 
20  Why does he give light to one who is sufferingAnd life to those in bitter distress?*+ 
21  Why do they long for death, but it does not come?+ They dig for it more than for hidden treasures,
22  Those who are rejoicing greatly,Who are happy when they find the grave. 
23  Why does he give light to a man who has lost his way,Whom God has hedged in?+ 
24  For in place of my food comes my sighing,+And my groaning+ pours out like water. 
25  For what I have dreaded has come upon me,And what I have feared has befallen me. 
26  I have had no peace, no quiet, no rest,But trouble keeps coming.”
