32  So these three men stopped trying to answer Job, because he was convinced of his own righteousness.*+
2  But E·liʹhu the son of Barʹa·chel the Buzʹite+ of the family of Ram had become very angry. His anger blazed against Job for trying to prove himself* right rather than God.+
3  He was also very angry with Job’s three companions because they could not find an answer but had declared God wicked.+
4  E·liʹhu had been waiting to respond to Job, because they were older than he was.+
5  When E·liʹhu saw that the three men had nothing to say in answer, his anger flared up.
6  So E·liʹhu the son of Barʹa·chel the Buzʹite began to speak, saying: “I am young*And you men are aged.+ So I respectfully held back,+And I dared not tell you what I know. 
 7  I thought, ‘Let age* speak,And let a multitude of years declare wisdom.’ 
 8  But it is the spirit in people,The breath of the Almighty, that gives them understanding.+ 
 9  Age alone does not* make one wise,Nor is it only old men who understand what is right.+ 
10  So I say, ‘Listen to me,And I will also tell you what I know.’ 
11  Look! I have waited for your words;I kept listening to your reasoning+As you searched for things to say.+ 
12  I paid close attention to you,But none of you could prove Job wrong*Or answer his arguments. 
13  So do not say, ‘We have found wisdom;It is God who refutes him, not a man.’ 
14  He did not direct his words against me,So I will not reply to him with your arguments. 
15  They are dismayed, they have no more answers;They have nothing left to say. 
16  I have waited, but they do not continue speaking;They just stand there, with no further answer. 
17  So I too will give an answer;I too will tell what I know,
18  For I am full of words;The spirit within me compels me. 
19  My insides are like wine that has no vent,Like new wineskins ready to burst.+ 
20  Let me speak so that I can find relief! I will open my lips and give an answer. 
21  I will not show partiality to anyone;+Nor will I flatter* any human,
22  For I do not know how to flatter;If I did, my Maker would quickly do away with me.
