2  For I have made up my mind not to come to you again in sadness.
2  For if I make you sad, who will be there to cheer me up except the one I saddened?
3  I wrote what I did, so that when I come I may not be saddened by those over whom I ought to rejoice, because I have confidence that what brings me joy brings all of you the same joy.
4  For out of much tribulation and anguish of heart I wrote you with many tears, not to sadden you,+ but to let you know the depth of love I have for you. 
5  Now if anyone has caused sadness,+ he has saddened, not me, but all of you to an extent—not to be too harsh in what I say.
6  This rebuke given by the majority is sufficient for such a man;
7  now you should instead kindly forgive and comfort him,+ so that he may not be overwhelmed* by excessive sadness.+
8  I therefore exhort you to confirm your love for him.+
9  For this is also why I wrote to you: to determine whether you would give proof of your obedience in all things.
10  If you forgive anyone for anything, I do also. In fact, whatever I have forgiven (if I have forgiven anything) has been for your sake in Christ’s sight,
11  so that we may not be overreached* by Satan,+ for we are not ignorant of his designs.*+ 
12  Now when I arrived in Troʹas+ to declare the good news about the Christ and a door was opened to me in the Lord,
13  my spirit felt no relief because of not finding Titus+ my brother. So I said good-bye to them and departed for Mac·e·doʹni·a.+ 
14  But thanks be to God, who always leads us in a triumphal procession in company with the Christ and through us spreads* the fragrance of the knowledge of him in every place!
15  For to God we are a sweet fragrance of Christ among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing;
16  to the latter ones an odor* of death leading to death,+ to the former ones a fragrance of life leading to life. And who is adequately qualified for these things?
17  We are, for we are not peddlers of* the word of God+ as many men are, but we speak in all sincerity as sent from God, yes, in the sight of God and in company with Christ.
