2  “Woe to those who scheme what is harmful,Who work out evil on their beds! When morning light comes they carry it out,Because it is in the power of their hand.+ 
 2  They desire fields and seize them;+Also houses, and they take them;They defraud a man of his house,+A man of his inheritance. 
 3  Therefore this is what Jehovah says: ‘Here I am devising against this family a calamity+ from which you will not escape.*+ You will no longer walk haughtily,+ for it is a time of calamity.+ 
 4  In that day people will recite a proverb concerning you,And they will bitterly lament over you.+ They will say: “We are completely devastated!+ He caused the portion of my people to change hands—how he removes it from me!+ To the unfaithful one he assigns our fields.” 
 5  So you will have no one to stretch the measuring cord,To allot the land in the congregation of Jehovah. 
 6  “Stop preaching!” they preach,“They should not preach these things;Humiliation will not overtake us!” 
 7  Is it being said, O house of Jacob: “Has the spirit of Jehovah become impatient? Are these his deeds?” Do not my own words bring good to those walking uprightly? 
 8  But lately my own people have risen up as an enemy. You openly strip off the majestic ornament with* the garmentFrom those passing by confidently, like those returning from war. 
 9  You drive the women of my people out from their delightful houses;From their children you take away my splendor forever. 
10  Get up and go, for this is no place of rest. Because of uncleanness,+ there is destruction, grievous destruction.+ 
11  If a man walks after wind and deception and tells this lie: “I will preach to you about wine and alcoholic drink,” Then he would be just the preacher for this people!+ 
12  I will certainly gather all of you, O Jacob;I will surely collect the remaining ones of Israel together.+ In unity I will place them, like sheep in the pen,Like a flock in its pasture;+It will be noisy with people.’+ 
13  The one breaking out will go before them;They will break out and pass through the gate and go out by it.+ Their king will pass through before them,With Jehovah at their head.”+
