19  He then entered Jerʹi·cho and was passing through.
2  Now a man named Zac·chaeʹus was there; he was a chief tax collector, and he was rich.
3  Well, he was trying to see who this Jesus was, but he could not see because of the crowd, since he was short.
4  So he ran ahead and climbed a sycamore* tree in order to see him, for he was about to pass that way.
5  Now when Jesus got to the place, he looked up and said to him: “Zac·chaeʹus, hurry and get down, for today I must stay in your house.”
6  With that he hurried down and joyfully welcomed him as a guest.
7  When they saw this, they were all muttering: “He went as a guest to the house of a man who is a sinner.”+
8  But Zac·chaeʹus stood up and said to the Lord: “Look! The half of my belongings, Lord, I am giving to the poor, and whatever I extorted* from anyone, I am restoring four times over.”+
9  At this Jesus said to him: “Today salvation has come to this house, because he too is a son of Abraham.
10  For the Son of man came to seek and to save what was lost.”+ 
11  While they were listening to these things, he told another illustration, because he was near Jerusalem and they thought that the Kingdom of God was going to appear instantly.+
12  So he said: “A man of noble birth traveled to a distant land+ to secure kingly power for himself and to return.
13  Calling ten of his slaves, he gave them ten miʹnas* and told them, ‘Do business with these until I come.’+
14  But his citizens hated him and sent out a body of ambassadors after him to say, ‘We do not want this man to become king over us.’ 
15  “When he eventually got back after having secured the kingly power,* he summoned the slaves to whom he had given the money,* in order to ascertain what they had gained by their business activity.+
16  So the first one came forward and said, ‘Lord, your miʹna gained ten miʹnas.’+
17  He said to him, ‘Well done, good slave! Because in a very small matter you have proved yourself faithful, hold authority over ten cities.’+
18  Now the second came, saying, ‘Your miʹna, Lord, made five miʹnas.’+
19  He said to this one as well, ‘You too be in charge of five cities.’
20  But another one came, saying, ‘Lord, here is your miʹna that I kept hidden away in a cloth.
21  You see, I was in fear of you, because you are a harsh man; you take what you did not deposit, and you reap what you did not sow.’+
22  He said to him, ‘By your own words I judge you, wicked slave. You knew, did you, that I am a harsh man, taking what I did not deposit and reaping what I did not sow?+
23  So why did you not put my money* in a bank? Then on my coming, I would have collected it with interest.’ 
24  “With that he said to those standing by, ‘Take the miʹna from him and give it to the one who has the ten miʹnas.’+
25  But they said to him, ‘Lord, he has ten miʹnas!’—
26  ‘I say to you, to everyone who has, more will be given, but from the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken away.+
27  Moreover, bring these enemies of mine here who did not want me to become king over them and execute them in front of me.’” 
28  After he had said these things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem.
29  And when he got near to Bethʹpha·ge and Bethʹa·ny at the mountain called Mount of Olives,+ he sent two of the disciples,+
30  saying: “Go into the village that is within sight, and after you enter it, you will find a colt tied, on which no man has ever sat. Untie it and bring it here.
31  But if anyone asks you, ‘Why are you untying it?’ you must say, ‘The Lord needs it.’”
32  So those who were sent went away and found it just as he had said to them.+
33  But as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them: “Why are you untying the colt?”
34  They said: “The Lord needs it.”
35  And they led it to Jesus, and they threw their outer garments on the colt and seated Jesus on it.+ 
36  As he moved along, they were spreading their outer garments on the road.+
37  As soon as he got near the road down the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and to praise God with a loud voice because of all the powerful works they had seen,
38  saying: “Blessed is the one coming as the King in Jehovah’s* name! Peace in heaven, and glory in the heights above!”+
39  However, some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to him: “Teacher, rebuke your disciples.”+
40  But in reply he said: “I tell you, if these remained silent, the stones would cry out.” 
41  And when he got nearby, he viewed the city and wept over it,+
42  saying: “If you, even you, had discerned on this day the things having to do with peace—but now they have been hidden from your eyes.+
43  Because the days will come upon you when your enemies will build around you a fortification of pointed stakes and will encircle you and besiege* you from every side.+
44  They will dash you and your children within you to the ground,+ and they will not leave a stone upon a stone in you,+ because you did not discern the time of your being inspected.” 
45  Then he entered the temple and started to throw out those who were selling,+
46  saying to them: “It is written, ‘My house will be a house of prayer,’+ but you have made it a cave of robbers.”+ 
47  He continued teaching daily in the temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the principal ones of the people were seeking to kill him;+
48  but they did not find any way to do this, for the people one and all kept hanging on to him to hear him.+
