13  Aʹbram then went up out of Egypt to the Negʹeb,+ he and his wife and all that he had, together with Lot.
2  Aʹbram was very rich in livestock, silver, and gold.+
3  He camped in one place after another as he traveled from the Negʹeb to Bethʹel, until he arrived at the place where his tent had been between Bethʹel and Aʹi,+
4  to the place where he had previously built an altar. There Aʹbram called on the name of Jehovah. 
5  Now Lot, who was traveling with Aʹbram, also owned sheep, cattle, and tents.
6  So the land did not allow for all of them to stay in the same place; their goods had become so many that they could no longer dwell together.
7  As a result, a quarrel arose between the herders of Aʹbram’s livestock and the herders of Lot’s livestock. (At that time the Caʹnaan·ites and the Perʹiz·zites were dwelling in the land.)+
8  So Aʹbram said to Lot:+ “Please, there should be no quarreling between me and you and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen, for we are brothers.
9  Is not the whole land available to you? Please, separate from me. If you go to the left, then I will go to the right; but if you go to the right, then I will go to the left.”
10  So Lot raised his eyes and saw that the whole district of the Jordan+ was a well-watered region (before Jehovah destroyed Sodʹom and Go·morʹrah), like the garden of Jehovah,+ like the land of Egypt, as far as Zoʹar.+
11  Then Lot chose for himself the whole district of the Jordan, and Lot moved his camp to the east. So they separated from each other.
12  Aʹbram lived in the land of Caʹnaan, but Lot lived among the cities of the district.+ Finally he set up his tent near Sodʹom.
13  Now the men of Sodʹom were wicked, gross sinners against Jehovah.+ 
14  Jehovah said to Aʹbram, after Lot had separated from him: “Raise your eyes, please, and look from the place where you are, to the north and south, east and west,
15  because all the land that you see, I will give to you and your offspring* as a lasting possession.+
16  And I will make your offspring* like the dust particles of the earth, so that if anyone could count the dust particles of the earth, then your offspring* could be counted.+
17  Get up, travel through the length and breadth of the land, for to you I am going to give it.”
18  So Aʹbram continued to live in tents. Later he came and dwelled among the big trees of Mamʹre,+ which are in Hebʹron,+ and there he built an altar to Jehovah.+
