16  Now Aʹbram’s wife Sarʹai had borne him no children,+ but she had an Egyptian servant whose name was Haʹgar.+
2  So Sarʹai said to Aʹbram: “Please now! Jehovah has prevented me from bearing children. Please, have relations with my servant. Perhaps I can have children by means of her.”+ So Aʹbram listened to what Sarʹai said.
3  After Aʹbram had lived for ten years in the land of Caʹnaan, Aʹbram’s wife Sarʹai took her Egyptian servant Haʹgar and gave her to her husband Aʹbram as his wife.
4  So he had relations with Haʹgar, and she became pregnant. When she realized that she was pregnant, she began to despise her mistress. 
5  At this Sarʹai said to Aʹbram: “The injury done to me is your fault. I was the one who put my servant in your arms,* but when she realized that she was pregnant, she began to despise me. May Jehovah judge between me and you.”
6  So Aʹbram said to Sarʹai: “Look! Your servant is under your authority. Do to her whatever you think is best.” Then Sarʹai humiliated her, and she ran away from her. 
7  Later Jehovah’s angel found her at a spring of waters in the wilderness, the spring on the way to Shur.+
8  And he said: “Haʹgar, servant of Sarʹai, where have you come from and where are you going?” To this she said: “I am running away from my mistress Sarʹai.”
9  Jehovah’s angel then said to her: “Return to your mistress and humble yourself under her hand.”
10  Then Jehovah’s angel said: “I will greatly multiply your offspring,* so that they will be too numerous to count.”+
11  Jehovah’s angel added: “Here you are pregnant, and you will give birth to a son, and you must name him Ishʹma·el,* for Jehovah has heard your affliction.
12  He will be a wild donkey* of a man. His hand will be against everyone, and everyone’s hand will be against him, and he will dwell opposite all his brothers.”* 
13  Then she called on the name of Jehovah, who was speaking to her: “You are a God of sight,”+ for she said: “Have I here actually looked upon the one who sees me?”
14  That is why the well was called Beʹer-laʹhai-roi.* (It is between Kaʹdesh and Beʹred.)
15  So Haʹgar bore to Aʹbram a son, and Aʹbram named his son, whom Haʹgar bore, Ishʹma·el.+
16  Aʹbram was 86 years old when Haʹgar bore Ishʹma·el to him.
