17  And his son Je·hoshʹa·phat+ became king in his place, and he strengthened his position over Israel.
2  He stationed military forces in all the fortified cities of Judah and put garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Eʹphra·im that Aʹsa his father had captured.+
3  Jehovah continued with Je·hoshʹa·phat because he walked in the former ways of his forefather David+ and did not search for the Baʹals.
4  For he searched for the God of his father+ and followed* his commandment and not the practices of Israel.+
5  Jehovah kept the kingdom firmly established in his hand;+ and all Judah continued to give gifts to Je·hoshʹa·phat, and he had riches and glory in abundance.+
6  His heart became bold in the ways of Jehovah, and he even removed the high places+ and the sacred poles*+ from Judah. 
7  In the third year of his reign he sent for his princes, Ben-haʹil, O·ba·diʹah, Zech·a·riʹah, Ne·thanʹel, and Mi·caiʹah, to teach in the cities of Judah.
8  There were Levites with them: She·maiʹah, Neth·a·niʹah, Zeb·a·diʹah, Asʹa·hel, She·mirʹa·moth, Je·honʹa·than, Ad·o·niʹjah, To·biʹjah, and Tob-ad·o·niʹjah, and along with them E·lishʹa·ma and Je·hoʹram the priests.+
9  They began teaching in Judah, taking with them the book of Jehovah’s Law,+ and they went around through all the cities of Judah teaching among the people. 
10  And the dread of Jehovah came upon all the kingdoms of the lands surrounding Judah, and they did not fight against Je·hoshʹa·phat.
11  And the Phi·lisʹtines brought to Je·hoshʹa·phat gifts and money as tribute. The Arabs brought him 7,700 rams and 7,700 male goats from their flocks. 
12  Je·hoshʹa·phat grew greater and greater,+ and he continued building fortified places+ and storage cities+ in Judah.
13  He carried out extensive projects in the cities of Judah, and he had soldiers, mighty warriors, in Jerusalem.
14  These were grouped by their paternal houses: of Judah the chiefs of thousands, Adʹnah the chief, and with him were 300,000 mighty warriors.+
15  And under his command was Je·ho·haʹnan the chief, and with him were 280,000.
16  And also under his command was Am·a·siʹah the son of Zichʹri, who volunteered for Jehovah’s service, and with him were 200,000 mighty warriors.
17  And out of Benjamin+ was E·liʹa·da, a mighty warrior, and with him were 200,000 men equipped with the bow and shield.+
18  And under his command was Je·hozʹa·bad, and with him were 180,000 men equipped for the army.
19  These were ministering to the king in addition to those whom the king put in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.+
