31  As soon as they had finished all of this, all the Israelites who were present went out to the cities of Judah, and they smashed the sacred pillars,+ cut down the sacred poles,*+ and tore down the high places+ and the altars+ throughout Judah and Benjamin, as well as in Eʹphra·im and Ma·nasʹseh,+ until they had destroyed them completely, after which all the Israelites returned to their cities, each one to his own possession. 
2  Then Hez·e·kiʹah appointed the priests in their divisions+ and the Levites in their divisions,+ each of the priests and Levites for their service,+ for the burnt offerings and the communion sacrifices, to minister and to give thanks and praise in the gates of the courtyards* of Jehovah.+
3  A portion of the king’s own goods was given for the burnt offerings,+ including the morning and evening offerings,+ as well as the burnt offerings for the Sabbaths,+ the new moons,+ and the festivals,+ according to what is written in the Law of Jehovah. 
4  Furthermore, he commanded the people living in Jerusalem to give the portion due the priests and the Levites,+ so that they might adhere strictly* to the law of Jehovah.
5  As soon as the order was issued, the Israelites gave in great quantities the firstfruits of the grain, new wine, oil,+ and honey, and of all the produce of the field;+ they brought in abundantly the tenth of everything.+
6  And the people of Israel and of Judah living in the cities of Judah also brought in the tenth of cattle and sheep and the tenth of the holy things+ that were sanctified to Jehovah their God. They brought it in and put it in many heaps.
7  In the third month+ they began laying their contributions in heaps; and in the seventh month+ they finished.
8  When Hez·e·kiʹah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they praised Jehovah and blessed his people Israel. 
9  Hez·e·kiʹah asked the priests and the Levites about the heaps,
10  and Az·a·riʹah the chief priest of the house of Zaʹdok said to him: “From the time they started bringing the contributions into the house of Jehovah,+ the people have been eating to satisfaction and there is still an abundant surplus, for Jehovah has blessed his people, and this great plenty is left over.”+ 
11  At this Hez·e·kiʹah told them to prepare storerooms*+ in the house of Jehovah, so they prepared them.
12  They kept faithfully bringing in the contributions, the tenth parts,*+ and the holy things; Con·a·niʹah the Levite was put in charge of all of this as supervisor, and his brother Shimʹe·i was second.
13  Je·hiʹel, Az·a·ziʹah, Naʹhath, Asʹa·hel, Jerʹi·moth, Joʹza·bad, Eʹli·el, Is·ma·chiʹah, Maʹhath, and Be·naiʹah were commissioners assisting Con·a·niʹah and his brother Shimʹe·i, by the order of King Hez·e·kiʹah, and Az·a·riʹah was supervisor of the house of the true God.
14  And Koʹre the son of Imʹnah, the Levite gatekeeper on the east side,+ was in charge of the voluntary offerings+ of the true God, and he distributed the contribution made to Jehovah+ and the most holy things.+
15  And under his direction were Eʹden, Mi·niʹa·min, Jeshʹu·a, She·maiʹah, Am·a·riʹah, and Shec·a·niʹah, in the cities of the priests,+ in their office of trust, to distribute equally to their brothers in the divisions,+ to great and small alike.
16  This was in addition to the distribution made to the males from three years old and up who were listed in the genealogical enrollment, who came daily to serve in the house of Jehovah and to carry out the duties of their divisions. 
17  The genealogical enrollment of the priests was by their paternal house,+ as was that of the Levites who were 20 years old and up,+ by the duties of their divisions.+
18  The genealogical enrollment included all their children, their wives, their sons, and their daughters, their entire congregation—for they kept themselves sanctified for what was holy because of their office of trust—
19  as well as the descendants of Aaron, the priests who were living in the fields of the pastures surrounding their cities.+ In all the cities, men had been designated by name to give portions to every male among the priests and to everyone included in the genealogical enrollment of the Levites. 
20  Hez·e·kiʹah did this throughout Judah, and he continued to do what was good and right and faithful before Jehovah his God.
21  And every work that he undertook to search for his God, whether in connection with the service of the house of the true God+ or in the Law and the commandment, he did wholeheartedly, and he was successful.
