16  Now concerning the collection for the holy ones,+ you may follow the directions I gave to the congregations of Ga·laʹti·a.
2  On the first day of every week, each of you should set something aside according to his own means, so that collections will not take place when I arrive.
3  But when I get there, I will send the men you approve of in your letters+ to take your kind gift to Jerusalem.
4  However, if it seems advisable for me to go there also, they will go there with me. 
5  But I will come to you when I have gone through Mac·e·doʹni·a, for I will be going through Mac·e·doʹni·a;+
6  and perhaps I will stay or even spend the winter with you, so that you may accompany me partway to where I may be going.
7  For I do not want to see you now just in passing, since I hope to spend some time with you,+ if Jehovah* permits.
8  But I am remaining in Ephʹe·sus+ until the Festival of Pentecost,
9  because a large door that leads to activity has been opened to me,+ but there are many opposers. 
10  Now if Timothy+ arrives, make sure that he has nothing to fear while among you, for he is performing the work of Jehovah,*+ just as I am.
11  Therefore, let no one look down on him. Send him on his way in peace, so that he may come to me, for I am waiting for him together with the brothers. 
12  Now concerning A·polʹlos+ our brother, I strongly urged him to come to you with the brothers. It was not his intention to come now, but he will come when he has the opportunity. 
13  Stay awake,+ stand firm in the faith,+ carry on in a manly way,*+ grow mighty.+
14  Let everything you do be done with love.+ 
15  Now I urge you, brothers: You know that the household of Stephʹa·nas is the firstfruits of A·chaʹia and that they devoted themselves to ministering to the holy ones.
16  May you also keep submitting yourselves to people like that and to all those cooperating and working hard.+
17  But I rejoice over the presence of Stephʹa·nas+ and For·tu·naʹtus and A·chaʹi·cus, because they have made up for your not being here.
18  For they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore, give recognition to men of that sort. 
19  The congregations of Asia send you their greetings. Aqʹui·la and Prisʹca together with the congregation that is in their house+ greet you heartily in the Lord.
20  All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. 
21  Here is my greeting, Paul’s, in my own hand. 
22  If anyone has no affection for the Lord, let him be accursed. O our Lord, come!
23  May the undeserved kindness of the Lord Jesus be with you.
24  May my love be with all of you in union with Christ Jesus.
