17  Six days later Jesus took Peter and James and his brother John along and led them up into a lofty mountain by themselves.+
2  And he was transfigured before them; his face shone as the sun, and his outer garments became brilliant* as the light.+
3  And look! there appeared to them Moses and E·liʹjah conversing with him.
4  Then Peter said to Jesus: “Lord, it is fine for us to be here. If you wish, I will erect three tents here, one for you, one for Moses, and one for E·liʹjah.”
5  While he was still speaking, look! a bright cloud overshadowed them, and look! a voice out of the cloud said: “This is my Son, the beloved, whom I have approved.+ Listen to him.”+
6  At hearing this, the disciples fell facedown and became very much afraid.
7  Then Jesus came near, and touching them, he said: “Get up. Have no fear.”
8  When they looked up, they saw no one but Jesus himself.
9  As they were descending from the mountain, Jesus commanded them: “Tell the vision to no one until the Son of man is raised up from the dead.”+ 
10  However, the disciples put the question to him: “Why, then, do the scribes say that E·liʹjah must come first?”+
11  In reply he said: “E·liʹjah is indeed coming and will restore all things.+
12  However, I say to you that E·liʹjah has already come, and they did not recognize him but did whatever they wanted with him.+ In this way also, the Son of man is going to suffer at their hands.”+
13  Then the disciples perceived that he spoke to them about John the Baptist. 
14  When they came toward the crowd,+ a man approached him, knelt down to him, and said:
15  “Lord, have mercy on my son, because he is an epileptic and is ill. He falls often into the fire and often into the water.+
16  I brought him to your disciples, but they could not cure him.”
17  In reply Jesus said: “O faithless and twisted generation,+ how long must I continue with you? How long must I put up with you? Bring him here to me.”
18  Then Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of him, and the boy was cured from that hour.+
19  Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said: “Why could we not expel it?”
20  He said to them: “Because of your little faith. For truly I say to you, if you have faith the size of a mustard grain, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you.”+
21 * —— 
22  It was while they were gathered together in Galʹi·lee that Jesus said to them: “The Son of man is going to be betrayed into men’s hands,+
23  and they will kill him, and on the third day he will be raised up.”+ And they were very much grieved. 
24  After they arrived in Ca·perʹna·um, the men collecting the two drachmas* tax approached Peter and said: “Does your teacher not pay the two drachmas tax?”+
25  He said: “Yes.” However, when he entered the house, Jesus spoke to him first and said: “What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth receive duties or head tax? From their sons or from the strangers?”
26  When he said: “From the strangers,” Jesus said to him: “Really, then, the sons are tax-free.
27  But that we do not cause them to stumble,+ go to the sea, cast a fishhook, and take the first fish that comes up, and when you open its mouth, you will find a silver coin.* Take that and give it to them for me and you.”
