29  The Phi·lisʹtines+ assembled all their armies at Aʹphek, while the Israelites were camping by the spring in Jezʹre·el.+
2  And the lords of the Phi·lisʹtines were passing by with their hundreds and their thousands, and David and his men were marching at the rear with Aʹchish.+
3  But the princes of the Phi·lisʹtines said: “Why are these Hebrews here?” Aʹchish replied to the princes of the Phi·lisʹtines: “This is David, the servant of King Saul of Israel, who has been with me for a year or more.+ I have not found any fault in him from the day he deserted to me until today.”
4  But the princes of the Phi·lisʹtines became indignant at him, and they said to him: “Make the man go back.+ Let him return to the place where you assigned him. Do not let him go down with us into the battle, so that he will not turn against us during the battle.+ For what better way to put himself in favor with his lord than with the heads of our men?
5  Is this not the David about whom they sang when they danced, saying: ‘Saul has struck down his thousands,And David his tens of thousands’?”+ 
6  So Aʹchish+ summoned David and said to him: “As surely as Jehovah is living, you are upright, and I am pleased to have you go on the campaign with my army,+ for I have not found any fault with you from the day you came to me until today.+ But the lords do not trust you.+
7  So return in peace, and do not do anything to displease the lords of the Phi·lisʹtines.”
8  However, David said to Aʹchish: “Why, what have I done? What fault have you found in your servant from the day that I came to you until today? Why should I not come with you and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?”
9  Aʹchish answered David: “From my standpoint, you have been as good as an angel of God.+ But the princes of the Phi·lisʹtines have said, ‘Do not let him go up with us into the battle.’
10  Now get up early in the morning with the servants of your lord who came with you; rise up and leave early in the morning as soon as it is light.” 
11  So David and his men rose up early in the morning to return to the land of the Phi·lisʹtines, and the Phi·lisʹtines went up to Jezʹre·el.+
