28  The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying:
2  “Son of man, tell the leader of Tyre, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Because your heart has become haughty,+ you keep saying, ‘I am a god. I sit on the throne of a god in the heart of the sea.’+ But you are only a man, not a god,Though in your heart you feel that you are a god. 
 3  Look! You are wiser than Daniel.+ No secrets have been hidden from you. 
 4  You have made yourself wealthy by your wisdom and your discernment,And you keep storing up gold and silver in your treasuries.+ 
 5  Your skillful trading brought you great wealth,+And your heart grew haughty because of your wealth.”’ 
6  “‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Because in your heart you feel that you are a god,
 7  I am bringing foreigners against you, the most ruthless of the nations,+And they will draw their swords against the beauty of your wisdomAnd defile your glorious splendor.+ 
 8  They will bring you down to the pit,*And you will die a violent death in the heart of the open sea.+ 
 9  Will you still say, ‘I am a god,’ to the one killing you? You will be a mere man, not a god, in the hand of those defiling you.”’ 
10  ‘By the hand of foreigners, you will die the death of the uncircumcised ones,For I myself have spoken,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.” 
11  And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying:
12  “Son of man, sing a dirge* concerning the king of Tyre, and tell him, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “You were the model of perfection,*Full of wisdom+ and perfect in beauty.+ 
13  You were in Eʹden, the garden of God. You were adorned with every precious stone—Ruby, topaz, and jasper; chrysʹo·lite, onyx, and jade; sapphire, turquoise,+ and emerald;And their settings and mountings were made of gold. They were prepared on the day you were created. 
14  I assigned you as the anointed covering cherub. You were on the holy mountain of God,+ and you walked about among fiery stones. 
15  You were faultless in your ways from the day you were createdUntil unrighteousness was found in you.+ 
16  Because of your abundant trade,+You became filled with violence, and you began to sin.+ So I will cast you out as profane from the mountain of God and destroy you,+O covering cherub, away from the stones of fire. 
17  Your heart became haughty because of your beauty.+ You corrupted your wisdom because of your own glorious splendor.+ I will throw you down to the earth.+ I will make you a spectacle before kings. 
18  Because of your great guilt and your dishonest trading, you have profaned your sanctuaries. I will cause a fire to break out in your midst, and it will consume you.+ I will reduce you to ashes on the earth before all those looking at you. 
19  All who knew you among the peoples will stare at you in amazement.+ Your end will be sudden and terrible,And you will cease to exist for all time.”’”+ 
20  And the word of Jehovah again came to me, saying:
21  “Son of man, turn your face toward Siʹdon,+ and prophesy against her.
22  You should say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “Here I am against you, O Siʹdon, and I will be glorified in your midst;And people will have to know that I am Jehovah when I execute judgment on her and I am sanctified in her. 
23  I will send pestilence into her and blood will flow in her streets. The slain will fall in her midst when the sword comes against her from all sides;And they will have to know that I am Jehovah.+ 
24  “‘“Then the house of Israel will no longer be surrounded by injurious briars and painful thorns,+ those who treat them with scorn; and people will have to know that I am the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.”’ 
25  “‘This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “When I regather the house of Israel from among the peoples where they were scattered,+ I will be sanctified among them in the eyes of the nations.+ And they will dwell on their land+ that I gave to my servant Jacob.+
26  They will dwell on it in security+ and build houses and plant vineyards,+ and they will dwell in security when I execute judgment on all those around them who treat them with scorn;+ and they will have to know that I am Jehovah their God.”’”
